# Summary

lua-time is a simple and small library that provides some time methods that are lacking on standart library.

# Support

Send me a message on github <leite>, I'll support as soon as possible and when it is possible.

# License

BEER-WARE, see source file

# Prerequisites

+ Lua 5.1 (or Luajit 2.0.8 GIT HEAD)
+ GNU Compiler tools (min-gw32 on windows http://sourceforge.net/projects/mingw/files/MinGW/ )
+ UPX eXe compressor (not needed)

# Installation

Tested on windows only, compatible with *NIX systens. You only need to edit some vars on makefile, for basic instalation use:

    # make

If you have upx use this for better output.
	
	# make release
	
For cleanup

	# make clean
	
# Methods

```lua

require 'time'

time.getSeconds() 		-- return time in seconds since EPOCH, ex: 1318215923

time.getMiliseconds() 	-- return time in seconds and milisenconds since EPOCH, ex: 1318215923.112

time.getMicroseconds()	-- return time in microseconds relative to seconds since EPOCH, ex: 0.903249

time.getDiff( <seconds/miliseconds> )		-- return the difference between a given time and now.

```	

# Test

There's a file 'time_bench.lua' that have a benchmark using a bitwise library ( http://bitop.luajit.org/ ) ...

# History

One day, some friend of mine asked me to make a benchmark between Lua and AS3 (Action Script 3). 
He's doing some code improvements in a game that we are developing, mostly at "round method" provided by AS3 math library,
and as I know native methods may peform better than workarounds, but in AS3 a round method made in bitwise could peform 
much faster than native round method ... so I accept the chalenge and I realize that Lua doesn't have a method that 
provide a milisecond precision. Then I found myself in a second chalenge and here I go!

PS: for the record, Lua (LuaJIT) is about 100x faster than AS3 round method (bitwise) and Lua native math library is 2-3x faster than bitwise method.  

% October 10th, 2011 -03 GMT
